+++
author = "David Howell"
categories = ["Readings"]
date = 2016-02-28T16:28:41Z
description = ""
draft = false
slug = "2016-02-28"
tags = ["Readings"]
title = "Readings: 28 Feb 2016"

+++


When you're driving, talking to a passenger is safer than talking to someone on the phone. Why? The passenger shares your _situational awareness_ and knows when the conversation has to slow down for the sake of safety.

[Malcolm Ocean considers this as a metaphor](http://malcolmocean.com/2016/02/phone-while-driving-metaphor/) for working with an instant messaging client open.

> Whereas if someone were talking to me in person, they might pick up on the physical cues of my situation, and see that I'm in a rush. Lots of people are pretty tactless, but to a large extent they can still tell if you’re busy, or stressed, or in a rush, etc.
>
> Talking to people on instant messenger loses a ton of those cues.

Instant messaging has some ways to provide those context cues, but they aren't automatic: I have to remember to turn on "Do Not Disturb" mode in HipChat before I try to get down to focused work.

---

I started following Malcom Ocean's blog after reading about his web appplication [Complice](https://complice.co/?s) on the [Beeminder blog](http://blog.beeminder.com/complice/). Complice is a bit hard to explain, but I like how Malcom put it on the Beeminder blog:

> The first obvious difference is that Beeminder is a quantified self app, where Complice is more... qualified self.

In [GTD](http://www.amazon.com/Getting-Things-Done-Stress-Free-Productivity/dp/0143126563) terms, Complice is for staying in touch with your **areas of responsibility**. I don't have a project in OmniFocus for "fitness", because fitness is a pursuit, not something that has a definitive end state. But it's the perfect fit for Complice -- my Complice goal "Pursue physical fitness" reminds me to do _something_ every day to either get some exercise or support future exercise[^1]. After my weekly OmniFocus review, I open up Complice and do a personal [retrospective](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retrospective#Software_development) for each of my goals (hence the _qualified self_): What worked well? What didn't work well? What do I want to differently this week?

My first reaction to Complice was pretty much "It costs how much? I know all these techniques already. I could do this with some scheduled tasks and Evernote." And that's true. But I've known about the self-management techniques that Complice supports for years and not applied them[^2]. After two months with Complice, I'm doing a better job at keeping my health, family, work, and personal interests in balance than I have in years -- that's money well spent.

---

Here's my confession about these "Readings" posts -- they're a release valve to let me publish _something_ even if it's not a polished or coherent article. Right now, I'm focusing on consistency. I've let perfectionism get in the way of the actual practice of writing[^3] for far too long. I'm using Beeminder to [get myself out of that trap](https://www.beeminder.com/dehowell/goals/write): If I don't publish a new article once a week, Beeminder gets my money. So far, so good!

[^1]: For example, I would count researching stretches to help deal with knee pain from running.
[^2]: [_The Healthy Programmer_](http://healthyprog.com) suggests a similar approach for managing health goals, which I read about in 2012 and then never applied.
[^3]: Writing in public, anyway. I've been journalling consistently for years, but I need the _potential_ or others to read what I'm writing to really drive myself to improve.

